# OpenSSL

OpenSSL provides SSL, TLS and general purpose cryptography.  It wraps the
[OpenSSL](https://www.openssl.org/) library.

# Examples

All examples assume you have loaded OpenSSL with:

    require 'openssl'

These examples build atop each other.  For example the key created in the next
is used in throughout these examples.

## Keys

### Creating a Key

This example creates a 2048 bit RSA keypair and writes it to the current
directory.

    key = OpenSSL::PKey::RSA.new 2048

    open 'private_key.pem', 'w' do |io| io.write key.to_pem end
    open 'public_key.pem', 'w' do |io| io.write key.public_key.to_pem end

### Exporting a Key

Keys saved to disk without encryption are not secure as anyone who gets ahold
of the key may use it unless it is encrypted.  In order to securely export a
key you may export it with a pass phrase.

    cipher = OpenSSL::Cipher.new 'AES-128-CBC'
    pass_phrase = 'my secure pass phrase goes here'

    key_secure = key.export cipher, pass_phrase

    open 'private.secure.pem', 'w' do |io|
      io.write key_secure
    end

OpenSSL::Cipher.ciphers returns a list of available ciphers.

### Loading a Key

A key can also be loaded from a file.

    key2 = OpenSSL::PKey::RSA.new File.read 'private_key.pem'
    key2.public? # => true
    key2.private? # => true

or

    key3 = OpenSSL::PKey::RSA.new File.read 'public_key.pem'
    key3.public? # => true
    key3.private? # => false

### Loading an Encrypted Key

OpenSSL will prompt you for your pass phrase when loading an encrypted key. If
you will not be able to type in the pass phrase you may provide it when
loading the key:

    key4_pem = File.read 'private.secure.pem'
    pass_phrase = 'my secure pass phrase goes here'
    key4 = OpenSSL::PKey::RSA.new key4_pem, pass_phrase

## RSA Encryption

RSA provides encryption and decryption using the public and private keys. You
can use a variety of padding methods depending upon the intended use of
encrypted data.

### Encryption & Decryption

Asymmetric public/private key encryption is slow and victim to attack in cases
where it is used without padding or directly to encrypt larger chunks of data.
Typical use cases for RSA encryption involve "wrapping" a symmetric key with
the public key of the recipient who would "unwrap" that symmetric key again
using their private key. The following illustrates a simplified example of
such a key transport scheme. It shouldn't be used in practice, though,
standardized protocols should always be preferred.

    wrapped_key = key.public_encrypt key

A symmetric key encrypted with the public key can only be decrypted with the
corresponding private key of the recipient.

    original_key = key.private_decrypt wrapped_key

By default PKCS#1 padding will be used, but it is also possible to use other
forms of padding, see PKey::RSA for further details.

### Signatures

Using "private_encrypt" to encrypt some data with the private key is
equivalent to applying a digital signature to the data. A verifying party may
validate the signature by comparing the result of decrypting the signature
with "public_decrypt" to the original data. However, OpenSSL::PKey already has
methods "sign" and "verify" that handle digital signatures in a standardized
way - "private_encrypt" and "public_decrypt" shouldn't be used in practice.

To sign a document, a cryptographically secure hash of the document is
computed first, which is then signed using the private key.

    digest = OpenSSL::Digest::SHA256.new
    signature = key.sign digest, document

To validate the signature, again a hash of the document is computed and the
signature is decrypted using the public key. The result is then compared to
the hash just computed, if they are equal the signature was valid.

    digest = OpenSSL::Digest::SHA256.new
    if key.verify digest, signature, document
      puts 'Valid'
    else
      puts 'Invalid'
    end

## PBKDF2 Password-based Encryption

If supported by the underlying OpenSSL version used, Password-based Encryption
should use the features of PKCS5. If not supported or if required by legacy
applications, the older, less secure methods specified in RFC 2898 are also
supported (see below).

PKCS5 supports PBKDF2 as it was specified in PKCS#5
[v2.0](http://www.rsa.com/rsalabs/node.asp?id=2127). It still uses a password,
a salt, and additionally a number of iterations that will slow the key
derivation process down. The slower this is, the more work it requires being
able to brute-force the resulting key.

### Encryption

The strategy is to first instantiate a Cipher for encryption, and then to
generate a random IV plus a key derived from the password using PBKDF2. PKCS
#5 v2.0 recommends at least 8 bytes for the salt, the number of iterations
largely depends on the hardware being used.

    cipher = OpenSSL::Cipher.new 'AES-128-CBC'
    cipher.encrypt
    iv = cipher.random_iv

    pwd = 'some hopefully not to easily guessable password'
    salt = OpenSSL::Random.random_bytes 16
    iter = 20000
    key_len = cipher.key_len
    digest = OpenSSL::Digest::SHA256.new

    key = OpenSSL::PKCS5.pbkdf2_hmac(pwd, salt, iter, key_len, digest)
    cipher.key = key

    Now encrypt the data:

    encrypted = cipher.update document
    encrypted << cipher.final

### Decryption

Use the same steps as before to derive the symmetric AES key, this time
setting the Cipher up for decryption.

    cipher = OpenSSL::Cipher.new 'AES-128-CBC'
    cipher.decrypt
    cipher.iv = iv # the one generated with #random_iv

    pwd = 'some hopefully not to easily guessable password'
    salt = ... # the one generated above
    iter = 20000
    key_len = cipher.key_len
    digest = OpenSSL::Digest::SHA256.new

    key = OpenSSL::PKCS5.pbkdf2_hmac(pwd, salt, iter, key_len, digest)
    cipher.key = key

    Now decrypt the data:

    decrypted = cipher.update encrypted
    decrypted << cipher.final

## PKCS #5 Password-based Encryption

PKCS #5 is a password-based encryption standard documented at
[RFC2898](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2898.txt).  It allows a short password or
passphrase to be used to create a secure encryption key. If possible, PBKDF2
as described above should be used if the circumstances allow it.

PKCS #5 uses a Cipher, a pass phrase and a salt to generate an encryption key.

    pass_phrase = 'my secure pass phrase goes here'
    salt = '8 octets'

### Encryption

First set up the cipher for encryption

    encryptor = OpenSSL::Cipher.new 'AES-128-CBC'
    encryptor.encrypt
    encryptor.pkcs5_keyivgen pass_phrase, salt

Then pass the data you want to encrypt through

    encrypted = encryptor.update 'top secret document'
    encrypted << encryptor.final

### Decryption

Use a new Cipher instance set up for decryption

    decryptor = OpenSSL::Cipher.new 'AES-128-CBC'
    decryptor.decrypt
    decryptor.pkcs5_keyivgen pass_phrase, salt

Then pass the data you want to decrypt through

    plain = decryptor.update encrypted
    plain << decryptor.final

## X509 Certificates

### Creating a Certificate

This example creates a self-signed certificate using an RSA key and a SHA1
signature.

    key = OpenSSL::PKey::RSA.new 2048
    name = OpenSSL::X509::Name.parse 'CN=nobody/DC=example'

    cert = OpenSSL::X509::Certificate.new
    cert.version = 2
    cert.serial = 0
    cert.not_before = Time.now
    cert.not_after = Time.now + 3600

    cert.public_key = key.public_key
    cert.subject = name

### Certificate Extensions

You can add extensions to the certificate with OpenSSL::SSL::ExtensionFactory
to indicate the purpose of the certificate.

    extension_factory = OpenSSL::X509::ExtensionFactory.new nil, cert

    cert.add_extension \
      extension_factory.create_extension('basicConstraints', 'CA:FALSE', true)

    cert.add_extension \
      extension_factory.create_extension(
        'keyUsage', 'keyEncipherment,dataEncipherment,digitalSignature')

    cert.add_extension \
      extension_factory.create_extension('subjectKeyIdentifier', 'hash')

The list of supported extensions (and in some cases their possible values) can
be derived from the "objects.h" file in the OpenSSL source code.

### Signing a Certificate

To sign a certificate set the issuer and use OpenSSL::X509::`Certificate#sign`
with a digest algorithm.  This creates a self-signed cert because we're using
the same name and key to sign the certificate as was used to create the
certificate.

    cert.issuer = name
    cert.sign key, OpenSSL::Digest::SHA1.new

    open 'certificate.pem', 'w' do |io| io.write cert.to_pem end

### Loading a Certificate

Like a key, a cert can also be loaded from a file.

    cert2 = OpenSSL::X509::Certificate.new File.read 'certificate.pem'

### Verifying a Certificate

Certificate#verify will return true when a certificate was signed with the
given public key.

    raise 'certificate can not be verified' unless cert2.verify key

## Certificate Authority

A certificate authority (CA) is a trusted third party that allows you to
verify the ownership of unknown certificates.  The CA issues key signatures
that indicate it trusts the user of that key.  A user encountering the key can
verify the signature by using the CA's public key.

### CA Key

CA keys are valuable, so we encrypt and save it to disk and make sure it is
not readable by other users.

    ca_key = OpenSSL::PKey::RSA.new 2048
    pass_phrase = 'my secure pass phrase goes here'

    cipher = OpenSSL::Cipher.new 'AES-128-CBC'

    open 'ca_key.pem', 'w', 0400 do |io|
      io.write ca_key.export(cipher, pass_phrase)
    end

### CA Certificate

A CA certificate is created the same way we created a certificate above, but
with different extensions.

    ca_name = OpenSSL::X509::Name.parse 'CN=ca/DC=example'

    ca_cert = OpenSSL::X509::Certificate.new
    ca_cert.serial = 0
    ca_cert.version = 2
    ca_cert.not_before = Time.now
    ca_cert.not_after = Time.now + 86400

    ca_cert.public_key = ca_key.public_key
    ca_cert.subject = ca_name
    ca_cert.issuer = ca_name

    extension_factory = OpenSSL::X509::ExtensionFactory.new
    extension_factory.subject_certificate = ca_cert
    extension_factory.issuer_certificate = ca_cert

    ca_cert.add_extension \
      extension_factory.create_extension('subjectKeyIdentifier', 'hash')

This extension indicates the CA's key may be used as a CA.

    ca_cert.add_extension \
      extension_factory.create_extension('basicConstraints', 'CA:TRUE', true)

This extension indicates the CA's key may be used to verify signatures on both
certificates and certificate revocations.

    ca_cert.add_extension \
      extension_factory.create_extension(
        'keyUsage', 'cRLSign,keyCertSign', true)

Root CA certificates are self-signed.

    ca_cert.sign ca_key, OpenSSL::Digest::SHA1.new

The CA certificate is saved to disk so it may be distributed to all the users
of the keys this CA will sign.

    open 'ca_cert.pem', 'w' do |io|
      io.write ca_cert.to_pem
    end

### Certificate Signing Request

The CA signs keys through a Certificate Signing Request (CSR).  The CSR
contains the information necessary to identify the key.

    csr = OpenSSL::X509::Request.new
    csr.version = 0
    csr.subject = name
    csr.public_key = key.public_key
    csr.sign key, OpenSSL::Digest::SHA1.new

A CSR is saved to disk and sent to the CA for signing.

    open 'csr.pem', 'w' do |io|
      io.write csr.to_pem
    end

### Creating a Certificate from a CSR

Upon receiving a CSR the CA will verify it before signing it.  A minimal
verification would be to check the CSR's signature.

    csr = OpenSSL::X509::Request.new File.read 'csr.pem'

    raise 'CSR can not be verified' unless csr.verify csr.public_key

After verification a certificate is created, marked for various usages, signed
with the CA key and returned to the requester.

    csr_cert = OpenSSL::X509::Certificate.new
    csr_cert.serial = 0
    csr_cert.version = 2
    csr_cert.not_before = Time.now
    csr_cert.not_after = Time.now + 600

    csr_cert.subject = csr.subject
    csr_cert.public_key = csr.public_key
    csr_cert.issuer = ca_cert.subject

    extension_factory = OpenSSL::X509::ExtensionFactory.new
    extension_factory.subject_certificate = csr_cert
    extension_factory.issuer_certificate = ca_cert

    csr_cert.add_extension \
      extension_factory.create_extension('basicConstraints', 'CA:FALSE')

    csr_cert.add_extension \
      extension_factory.create_extension(
        'keyUsage', 'keyEncipherment,dataEncipherment,digitalSignature')

    csr_cert.add_extension \
      extension_factory.create_extension('subjectKeyIdentifier', 'hash')

    csr_cert.sign ca_key, OpenSSL::Digest::SHA1.new

    open 'csr_cert.pem', 'w' do |io|
      io.write csr_cert.to_pem
    end

## SSL and TLS Connections

Using our created key and certificate we can create an SSL or TLS connection.
An SSLContext is used to set up an SSL session.

    context = OpenSSL::SSL::SSLContext.new

### SSL Server

An SSL server requires the certificate and private key to communicate securely
with its clients:

    context.cert = cert
    context.key = key

Then create an SSLServer with a TCP server socket and the context.  Use the
SSLServer like an ordinary TCP server.

    require 'socket'

    tcp_server = TCPServer.new 5000
    ssl_server = OpenSSL::SSL::SSLServer.new tcp_server, context

    loop do
      ssl_connection = ssl_server.accept

      data = connection.gets

      response = "I got #{data.dump}"
      puts response

      connection.puts "I got #{data.dump}"
      connection.close
    end

### SSL client

An SSL client is created with a TCP socket and the context. `SSLSocket#connect`
must be called to initiate the SSL handshake and start encryption.  A key and
certificate are not required for the client socket.

Note that `SSLSocket#close` doesn't close the underlying socket by default. Set
S`SLSocket#sync_close` to true if you want.

    require 'socket'

    tcp_socket = TCPSocket.new 'localhost', 5000
    ssl_client = OpenSSL::SSL::SSLSocket.new tcp_socket, context
    ssl_client.sync_close = true
    ssl_client.connect

    ssl_client.puts "hello server!"
    puts ssl_client.gets

    ssl_client.close # shutdown the TLS connection and close tcp_socket

### Peer Verification

An unverified SSL connection does not provide much security.  For enhanced
security the client or server can verify the certificate of its peer.

The client can be modified to verify the server's certificate against the
certificate authority's certificate:

    context.ca_file = 'ca_cert.pem'
    context.verify_mode = OpenSSL::SSL::VERIFY_PEER

    require 'socket'

    tcp_socket = TCPSocket.new 'localhost', 5000
    ssl_client = OpenSSL::SSL::SSLSocket.new tcp_socket, context
    ssl_client.connect

    ssl_client.puts "hello server!"
    puts ssl_client.gets

If the server certificate is invalid or `context.ca_file` is not set when
verifying peers an OpenSSL::SSL::SSLError will be raised.

[OpenSSL Reference](https://ruby-doc.org/stdlib-2.7.0/libdoc/openssl/rdoc/OpenSSL.html)