# DRb

## Overview

dRuby is a distributed object system for Ruby.  It is written in pure Ruby and
uses its own protocol.  No add-in services are needed beyond those provided by
the Ruby runtime, such as TCP sockets.  It does not rely on or interoperate
with other distributed object systems such as CORBA, RMI, or .NET.

dRuby allows methods to be called in one Ruby process upon a Ruby object
located in another Ruby process, even on another machine. References to
objects can be passed between processes.  Method arguments and return values
are dumped and loaded in marshalled format.  All of this is done transparently
to both the caller of the remote method and the object that it is called upon.

An object in a remote process is locally represented by a DRb::DRbObject
instance.  This acts as a sort of proxy for the remote object.  Methods called
upon this DRbObject instance are forwarded to its remote object.  This is
arranged dynamically at run time.  There are no statically declared interfaces
for remote objects, such as CORBA's IDL.

dRuby calls made into a process are handled by a DRb::DRbServer instance
within that process.  This reconstitutes the method call, invokes it upon the
specified local object, and returns the value to the remote caller.  Any
object can receive calls over dRuby.  There is no need to implement a special
interface, or mixin special functionality.  Nor, in the general case, does an
object need to explicitly register itself with a DRbServer in order to receive
dRuby calls.

One process wishing to make dRuby calls upon another process must somehow
obtain an initial reference to an object in the remote process by some means
other than as the return value of a remote method call, as there is initially
no remote object reference it can invoke a method upon.  This is done by
attaching to the server by URI.  Each DRbServer binds itself to a URI such as
'druby://example.com:8787'.  A DRbServer can have an object attached to it
that acts as the server's **front** **object**.  A DRbObject can be explicitly
created from the server's URI.  This DRbObject's remote object will be the
server's front object.  This front object can then return references to other
Ruby objects in the DRbServer's process.

Method calls made over dRuby behave largely the same as normal Ruby method
calls made within a process.  Method calls with blocks are supported, as are
raising exceptions.  In addition to a method's standard errors, a dRuby call
may also raise one of the dRuby-specific errors, all of which are subclasses
of DRb::DRbError.

Any type of object can be passed as an argument to a dRuby call or returned as
its return value.  By default, such objects are dumped or marshalled at the
local end, then loaded or unmarshalled at the remote end.  The remote end
therefore receives a copy of the local object, not a distributed reference to
it; methods invoked upon this copy are executed entirely in the remote
process, not passed on to the local original.  This has semantics similar to
pass-by-value.

However, if an object cannot be marshalled, a dRuby reference to it is passed
or returned instead.  This will turn up at the remote end as a DRbObject
instance.  All methods invoked upon this remote proxy are forwarded to the
local object, as described in the discussion of DRbObjects.  This has
semantics similar to the normal Ruby pass-by-reference.

The easiest way to signal that we want an otherwise marshallable object to be
passed or returned as a DRbObject reference, rather than marshalled and sent
as a copy, is to include the DRb::DRbUndumped mixin module.

dRuby supports calling remote methods with blocks.  As blocks (or rather the
Proc objects that represent them) are not marshallable, the block executes in
the local, not the remote, context.  Each value yielded to the block is passed
from the remote object to the local block, then the value returned by each
block invocation is passed back to the remote execution context to be
collected, before the collected values are finally returned to the local
context as the return value of the method invocation.

## Examples of usage

For more dRuby samples, see the `samples` directory in the full dRuby
distribution.

### dRuby in client/server mode

This illustrates setting up a simple client-server drb system.  Run the server
and client code in different terminals, starting the server code first.

#### Server code

    require 'drb/drb'

    # The URI for the server to connect to
    URI="druby://localhost:8787"

    class TimeServer

      def get_current_time
        return Time.now
      end

    end

    # The object that handles requests on the server
    FRONT_OBJECT=TimeServer.new

    DRb.start_service(URI, FRONT_OBJECT)
    # Wait for the drb server thread to finish before exiting.
    DRb.thread.join

#### Client code

    require 'drb/drb'

    # The URI to connect to
    SERVER_URI="druby://localhost:8787"

    # Start a local DRbServer to handle callbacks.
    #
    # Not necessary for this small example, but will be required
    # as soon as we pass a non-marshallable object as an argument
    # to a dRuby call.
    #
    # Note: this must be called at least once per process to take any effect.
    # This is particularly important if your application forks.
    DRb.start_service

    timeserver = DRbObject.new_with_uri(SERVER_URI)
    puts timeserver.get_current_time

### Remote objects under dRuby

This example illustrates returning a reference to an object from a dRuby call.
 The Logger instances live in the server process.  References to them are
returned to the client process, where methods can be invoked upon them.  These
methods are executed in the server process.

#### Server code

    require 'drb/drb'

    URI="druby://localhost:8787"

    class Logger

        # Make dRuby send Logger instances as dRuby references,
        # not copies.
        include DRb::DRbUndumped

        def initialize(n, fname)
            @name = n
            @filename = fname
        end

        def log(message)
            File.open(@filename, "a") do |f|
                f.puts("#{Time.now}: #{@name}: #{message}")
            end
        end

    end

    # We have a central object for creating and retrieving loggers.
    # This retains a local reference to all loggers created.  This
    # is so an existing logger can be looked up by name, but also
    # to prevent loggers from being garbage collected.  A dRuby
    # reference to an object is not sufficient to prevent it being
    # garbage collected!
    class LoggerFactory

        def initialize(bdir)
            @basedir = bdir
            @loggers = {}
        end

        def get_logger(name)
            if !@loggers.has_key? name
                # make the filename safe, then declare it to be so
                fname = name.gsub(/[.\/\\\:]/, "_")
                @loggers[name] = Logger.new(name, @basedir + "/" + fname)
            end
            return @loggers[name]
        end

    end

    FRONT_OBJECT=LoggerFactory.new("/tmp/dlog")

    DRb.start_service(URI, FRONT_OBJECT)
    DRb.thread.join

#### Client code

    require 'drb/drb'

    SERVER_URI="druby://localhost:8787"

    DRb.start_service

    log_service=DRbObject.new_with_uri(SERVER_URI)

    ["loga", "logb", "logc"].each do |logname|

        logger=log_service.get_logger(logname)

        logger.log("Hello, world!")
        logger.log("Goodbye, world!")
        logger.log("=== EOT ===")

    end

## Security

As with all network services, security needs to be considered when using
dRuby.  By allowing external access to a Ruby object, you are not only
allowing outside clients to call the methods you have defined for that object,
but by default to execute arbitrary Ruby code on your server.  Consider the
following:

    # !!! UNSAFE CODE !!!
    ro = DRbObject::new_with_uri("druby://your.server.com:8989")
    class << ro
      undef :instance_eval  # force call to be passed to remote object
    end
    ro.instance_eval("`rm -rf *`")

The dangers posed by instance_eval and friends are such that a DRbServer
should only be used when clients are trusted.

A DRbServer can be configured with an access control list to selectively allow
or deny access from specified IP addresses.  The main druby distribution
provides the ACL class for this purpose.  In general, this mechanism should
only be used alongside, rather than as a replacement for, a good firewall.

## dRuby internals

dRuby is implemented using three main components: a remote method call
marshaller/unmarshaller; a transport protocol; and an ID-to-object mapper. 
The latter two can be directly, and the first indirectly, replaced, in order
to provide different behaviour and capabilities.

Marshalling and unmarshalling of remote method calls is performed by a
DRb::DRbMessage instance.  This uses the Marshal module to dump the method
call before sending it over the transport layer, then reconstitute it at the
other end.  There is normally no need to replace this component, and no direct
way is provided to do so. However, it is possible to implement an alternative
marshalling scheme as part of an implementation of the transport layer.

The transport layer is responsible for opening client and server network
connections and forwarding dRuby request across them. Normally, it uses
DRb::DRbMessage internally to manage marshalling and unmarshalling.  The
transport layer is managed by DRb::DRbProtocol.  Multiple protocols can be
installed in DRbProtocol at the one time; selection between them is determined
by the scheme of a dRuby URI.  The default transport protocol is selected by
the scheme 'druby:', and implemented by DRb::DRbTCPSocket.  This uses plain
TCP/IP sockets for communication.  An alternative protocol, using UNIX domain
sockets, is implemented by DRb::DRbUNIXSocket in the file drb/unix.rb, and
selected by the scheme 'drbunix:'.  A sample implementation over HTTP can be
found in the samples accompanying the main dRuby distribution.

The ID-to-object mapping component maps dRuby object ids to the objects they
refer to, and vice versa.  The implementation to use can be specified as part
of a DRb::DRbServer's configuration.  The default implementation is provided
by DRb::DRbIdConv.  It uses an object's ObjectSpace id as its dRuby id.  This
means that the dRuby reference to that object only remains meaningful for the
lifetime of the object's process and the lifetime of the object within that
process.  A modified implementation is provided by DRb::TimerIdConv in the
file drb/timeridconv.rb.  This implementation retains a local reference to all
objects exported over dRuby for a configurable period of time (defaulting to
ten minutes), to prevent them being garbage-collected within this time. 
Another sample implementation is provided in sample/name.rb in the main dRuby
distribution.  This allows objects to specify their own id or "name".  A dRuby
reference can be made persistent across processes by having each process
register an object using the same dRuby name.

[DRb Reference](https://ruby-doc.org/stdlib-2.7.0/libdoc/drb/rdoc/DRb.html)